docs/community/index.md, before:

# Community

## Introduction

The illumos community is small but active.  We welcome everybody who would like
to use the software and participate in the community -- whether you've decades
of experience in systems software, or you're just getting started; whether you
work for a company that uses illumos, or you just find it personally
interesting.

We try to be helpful and inclusive!  It's not uncommon to see folks on both IRC
and the mailing lists discussing a range of issues, both simple and complex.
Whether you're just getting started, or you're debugging a difficult problem,
you should be able to find the help you need.

!!! danger "The Golden Rule"
    Please be respectful and civil in your communications.  Harassment and
    other poor behavior will not be tolerated, and preventative action _will_
    be taken by moderators.  If you would like to report an incident, please
    contact a member of the [leadership teams](../about/leadership.md).

## Mailing Lists

Please refer to [this page](lists.md) for both illumos project and related
community mailing list information.

## IRC Channels

| Project     | Network                            | Channel        |
| -------     | ------------                       | -------------- |
| illumos     | [Libera Chat](https://libera.chat) | `#illumos`     |
| SmartOS     | [Libera Chat](https://libera.chat) | `#smartos`     |
| OmniOS      | [Libera Chat](https://libera.chat) | `#omnios`      |
| OpenIndiana | [Libera Chat](https://libera.chat) | `#openindiana` |
| OpenZFS     | [Libera Chat](https://libera.chat) | `#openzfs`     |

Commit message:

community: add the code of conduct

docs/community/index.md, after:

# Community

## Introduction

The illumos community is small but active.  We welcome everybody who would like
to use the software and participate in the community -- whether you've decades
of experience in systems software, or you're just getting started; whether you
work for a company that uses illumos, or you just find it personally
interesting.

We try to be helpful and inclusive!  It's not uncommon to see folks on both IRC
and the mailing lists discussing a range of issues, both simple and complex.
Whether you're just getting started, or you're debugging a difficult problem,
you should be able to find the help you need.

!!! danger "The Golden Rule"
    Please be respectful and civil in your communications.
    Community participation is covered by a [code of
    conduct](../community/conduct.md), which all community members should read
    and follow.
    Harassment and other poor behavior will not be tolerated, and preventative
    action _will_ be taken by moderators.  If you would like to report an
    incident, please contact the moderation team as laid out in [the code of
    conduct](../community/conduct.md#enforcement).

## Mailing Lists

Please refer to [this page](lists.md) for both illumos project and related
community mailing list information.

## IRC Channels

| Project     | Network                            | Channel        |
| -------     | ------------                       | -------------- |
| illumos     | [Libera Chat](https://libera.chat) | `#illumos`     |
| SmartOS     | [Libera Chat](https://libera.chat) | `#smartos`     |
| OmniOS      | [Libera Chat](https://libera.chat) | `#omnios`      |
| OpenIndiana | [Libera Chat](https://libera.chat) | `#openindiana` |
| OpenZFS     | [Libera Chat](https://libera.chat) | `#openzfs`     |
