docs/community/lists.md, before:

# Mailing Lists

!!! danger "The Golden Rule"
    Please be respectful and civil in your communications.  Harassment and
    other poor behavior will not be tolerated, and preventative action _will_
    be taken by moderators.  If you would like to report an incident, please
    contact a member of the [leadership teams](../about/leadership.md).

## General Lists

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| [announce](https://illumos.topicbox.com/groups/announce) | Announcements including new releases, significant milestones, administrative and policy decisions and other news-worthy items. ([Old archives](http://lists.illumos.org/pipermail/announce)) |
| [developer](https://illumos.topicbox.com/groups/developer) | Developers working on illumos code and those looking to become actively involved. ([Old archives](http://lists.illumos.org/pipermail/developer)) |
| [discuss](https://illumos.topicbox.com/groups/discuss) | General discussion ([Old archives](http://lists.illumos.org/pipermail/discuss)) |

## Code Commits, Integration, Bug Tracking

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| [advocates](https://illumos.topicbox.com/groups/advocates) | Moderated list for illumos core team members and submitting RTIs only. ([Old archives](http://lists.illumos.org/pipermail/advocates/)) |
| [commits](https://illumos.topicbox.com/groups/illumos-commits) | Notifications about each commit made to the illumos source code repository. ([Old archives](http://lists.illumos.org/pipermail/illumos-commits))

## Related Communities

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| [dtrace-discuss](http://dtrace.org/blogs/mailing-list/) | All things DTrace |
| [openzfs-developer](https://openzfs.topicbox.com/groups/developer/discussions) | Platform-independent mailing list for ZFS developers to review ZFS code and architecture changes from all platforms. |
| [oi-dev](http://openindiana.org/mailman/listinfo/oi-dev) | OpenIndiana distro developer list |
| [openindiana-discuss](http://openindiana.org/mailman/listinfo/openindiana-discuss) | OpenIndiana distro users list |
| [OmniOS Contacts](https://omniosce.org/about/contact) | OmniOS mailing list and other contact details |
| [smartos-discuss](https://smartos.topicbox.com/groups/smartos-discuss) | SmartOS distro |

Commit message:

community: add the code of conduct

docs/community/lists.md, after:

# Mailing Lists

!!! danger "The Golden Rule"
    Please be respectful and civil in your communications.
    Community participation is covered by a [code of
    conduct](../community/conduct.md), which all community members should read
    and follow.
    Harassment and other poor behavior will not be tolerated, and preventative
    action _will_ be taken by moderators.  If you would like to report an
    incident, please contact the moderation team as laid out in [the code of
    conduct](../community/conduct.md#enforcement).

## General Lists

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| [announce](https://illumos.topicbox.com/groups/announce) | Announcements including new releases, significant milestones, administrative and policy decisions and other news-worthy items. ([Old archives](http://lists.illumos.org/pipermail/announce)) |
| [developer](https://illumos.topicbox.com/groups/developer) | Developers working on illumos code and those looking to become actively involved. ([Old archives](http://lists.illumos.org/pipermail/developer)) |
| [discuss](https://illumos.topicbox.com/groups/discuss) | General discussion ([Old archives](http://lists.illumos.org/pipermail/discuss)) |

## Code Commits, Integration, Bug Tracking

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| [advocates](https://illumos.topicbox.com/groups/advocates) | Moderated list for illumos core team members and submitting RTIs only. ([Old archives](http://lists.illumos.org/pipermail/advocates/)) |
| [commits](https://illumos.topicbox.com/groups/illumos-commits) | Notifications about each commit made to the illumos source code repository. ([Old archives](http://lists.illumos.org/pipermail/illumos-commits))

## Related Communities

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| [dtrace-discuss](http://dtrace.org/blogs/mailing-list/) | All things DTrace |
| [openzfs-developer](https://openzfs.topicbox.com/groups/developer/discussions) | Platform-independent mailing list for ZFS developers to review ZFS code and architecture changes from all platforms. |
| [oi-dev](http://openindiana.org/mailman/listinfo/oi-dev) | OpenIndiana distro developer list |
| [openindiana-discuss](http://openindiana.org/mailman/listinfo/openindiana-discuss) | OpenIndiana distro users list |
| [OmniOS Contacts](https://omniosce.org/about/contact) | OmniOS mailing list and other contact details |
| [smartos-discuss](https://smartos.topicbox.com/groups/smartos-discuss) | SmartOS distro |
